docs: deprecation guide for moving to firebase-js-sdk modular API (#8279)
invertase/react-native-firebase: docs/migrating-to-v22.md

---
title: Migrating to v22
description: Migrate to React Native Firebase v22.
previous: /
next: /typescript
---

# Switching off warning logs

You may notice an influx of console warning logs as we continue deprecating all existing namespaced API. If you would like to switch these logs off, you may set the following global property to `true` anywhere before you initialize Firebase.

```js
globalThis.RNFB_SILENCE_V8_DEPRECATION_WARNINGS = true;
```

# Migrating to React Native modular API

> React Native Firebase does not currently have documentation for modular API. A refresh of the React Native Firebase documentation is something we will be aiming to achieve in the near future. We're keen to move the project to TypeScript which will then allow us to generate reference documentation from those types.
> 
> However, if you are familiar with the Firebase JS SDK, it will be a much smoother process. React Native Firebase is using the same API as can be found on the official [Firebase JS SDK modular API documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js).

Reviewer: I'm not sure how much guide we really need? Upstream is pretty thin. I link it here then add a rough explanation and I think that's a "guide" really. No need to talk about the future typescript plans or anything, just "here's the idea, here's an upstream link, get it done" ?

```suggestion
If you are familiar with the Firebase JS SDK, the upgrade will be a familiar process, following similar steps to [the migration guide](https://firebase.google.com/docs/web/modular-upgrade#refactor_to_the_modular_style) for firebase-js-sdk.

React Native Firebase uses the same API as the official [Firebase JS SDK modular API documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js) so the same migration steps apply here, except there is no need for special "compat" imports as an intermediate step.

The process will always follow the same steps for every API you use:

- determine the new modular API function for the old namespaced API you are using
- import that new modular API function
- change the call from using the firebase module to access the API and passing parameters, to the new style of using the modular API function, passing in the firebase module object(s) required for it to work and then the parameters.

 In the end, it should be a very mechanical process and can be done incrementally, one API call at a time.
 
 There are concrete examples below to show the process 
```

## Firestore Deprecation Example

### Namespaced (deprecated) Query

You ought to move away from the following way of making Firestore queries. The React Native Firebase namespaced API is being completely removed in React Native Firebase v22:

```js
import firestore from '@react-native-firebase/firestore';

const db = firestore();

const querySnapshot = await db.collection('cities').where('capital', '==', true).get();

querySnapshot.forEach(doc => {
  console.log(doc.id, ' => ', doc.data());
});
```

### Modular Query

This is how the same query would look using the new, React Native Firebase modular API:

```js
import { collection, query, where, getDocs, getFirestore } from '@react-native-firebase/firestore';

const db = getFirestore();

const q = query(collection(db, 'cities'), where('capital', '==', true));

const querySnapshot = await getDocs(q);

querySnapshot.forEach(doc => {
  console.log(doc.id, ' => ', doc.data());
});
```

For more examples of requesting Firestore data, see the official Firebase documentation for [Get data with Cloud Firestore](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/get-data).

### Migration Help

> You will find code snippets for "Web namespaced API" and "Web modular API" throughout the official Firebase documentation. Update your code to use "Web modular API". Here are some links to help you get started:

Reviewer: this is fantastic
